then Moses went and spoke these words to
all Israel I am 120 years old today I
can no longer go out and come in
also the Lord has said to me you shall
not cross over to this Jordan the Lord
your God Himself crosses over before you
he will destroy these nations from
before you and you shall dispossessed
them joshua himself crosses over before
you who just as the lord has said and
the Lord will do to them as he did to
Sihon and all the kings of the amorite
sand their land when he destroyed them
the Lord will give them over to you that
you may do to them according to every
commandment which I have commanded you
[Music]
be strong and of good courage do not
fear nor be afraid of them for the Lord
your God he is the one who goes with you
he will not leave you nor forsake you
then Moses called Joshua and said to him
in the sight of all Israel be strong and
of good courage for you must go with
this people to the land which the Lord
has sworn to their fathers to give them
and you shall cause them to inherit it
and the Lord he is the one who goes
before you he will be with you he will
not leave you nor forsake you do not
fear nor be dismayed
so Moses wrote this law and delivered it
to the priests the sons of Levi who bore
the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord and
to all the elders of Israel and Moses
commanded them at the end of every seven
years at the appointed time in the year
of release at the Feast of Tabernacles
when all Israel comes to appear before
the Lord your God in the place which he
choose
you shall read this law before all
Israel in their hearing gather the
people together men women and little
ones and the stranger who is within your
gates that they may hear and that they
may learn to fear the Lord your God and
to carefully observe all the words of
this law and that their children who
have not known it may hear and learn to
fear the Lord your God as long as you
live in the land which you cross the
Jordan to possess then the Lord said to
Moses behold the days approach when you
must die
call Joshua and present yourselves in
the tabernacle of meeting that I may
inaugurate him so Moses and Joshua went
and presented themselves in the
tabernacle of meeting now the Lord
appeared at the tabernacle in a pillar
of cloud and the pillar of cloud stood
above the door of the tabernacle
and the Lord said to Moses behold you
will rest with your father's and this
people will rise and play the harlot
with the gods of the foreigners of the
land where they go to be among them and
they will forsake me and break my
covenant which I have made with them
then my anger shall be aroused against
them in that day and I will forsake them
and I will hide my face from them and
they shall be devoured and many evils
and troubles shall befall them so that
they will say in that day have not these
evils come upon us because our God is
not among us and I will surely hide my
face in that day because of all the evil
which they have done in that they have
turned to other gods
now therefore write down this song for
yourselves and teach it to the children
of Israel put it in their mouths that
this song may be a witness for me
against the children of Israel when I
have brought them to the land flowing
with milk and honey of which I swore to
their fathers and they have eaten and
filled themselves and grown fat then
they will turn to other gods and serve
them
and they will provoke me and break my
covenant then it shall be when many
evils and troubles have come upon them
that this song will testify against them
as a witness for it will not be
forgotten in the mouths of their
descendants for I know the inclination
of their behavior today even before I
have brought them to the land of which I
swore to give them therefore Moses wrote
this song the same day and taught it to
the children of Israel then he
inaugurated Joshua the son of nun be
strong and of good courage for you shall
bring the children of Israel into the
land of which I swore to them and I will
be with you so it was when Moses had
completed writing the words of this law
in a book when they were finished that
Moses commanded the Levites who bore the
Ark of the Covenant of the Lord take
this book of the law and put it beside
the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord your
God that it may be there as a witness
against you for I know your rebellion
and your stiff neck if today while I am
yet alive with you you have been
rebellious against the Lord then how
much more after my death gather to me
all the elders of your tribes and your
officers that I may speak these words in
their hearing and called heaven and
earth to witness against them for I know
that after my death you will become
utterly corrupt and turn aside from the
way which I have commanded you and evil
will befall you in the latter days
because you will do evil in the sight of
the Lord to provoke him to anger through
the work of your hands
when Moses spoke in the hearing of all
the Assembly of Israel the words of this
song until they were ended